# Machine Learning Application to Disciplinary Action:
## Evansville Vanderburgh School Corporation

### ABSTRACT
To this day, the School-to-Prison-Pipeline (STPP) served as a major contributor to the continually increasing prison population in America. This issue stems from a tendency to discipline students in ways that are not conducive to their educational and behavioral development. Within this unfortunate phenomenon there is great disproportionality in how students are being disciplined through suspensions, expulsions, and even arrests. The purpose of this project is to demonstrate data mining and machine learning techniques that can be applied to predict which factors contribute to a likelihood of experiencing a particular type of disciplinary action. The model focuses on the following variables: school, grade, gender, ethnicity, free lunch status, primary exceptionality, reason for expulsion or suspension, and reason for arrest. The best F1 Score, which was 0.6572, was produced using SMOTE as the over-sampling tool and Linear SVC as the classifier. This model produced an accuracy of 77%. Finally, the results were reviewed and propositions for further experimentation and research in the future was suggested.

This is the source code of Beautiful Jekyll that is responsible for generating [the demo website for this theme](http://deanattali.com/beautiful-jekyll).  To learn how to build a similarly awesome looking website in minutes, go to the [main Beautiful Jekyll page](https://github.com/daattali/beautiful-jekyll#readme).

**Important note:** This is the `gh-pages` branch of Beautiful Jekyll. If you want to create a User Page (meaning that your website will be `https://yourusername.github.io`) then you should use the `master` branch. If you want to create a Project Page (your website will be `https://yourusername.github.io/reponame`) then you do need to use a `gh-pages` branch, but I strongly suggest you delete this branch and create it again from the `master` branch. This branch in its current form does not include the latest Beautiful Jekyll code, so I recommend you use the `master` branch as the basis of your website.
